Specs revision (#1283)
anoma/namada: documentation/specs/src/interoperability/ethereum-bridge/transfers_to_ethereum.md

list of pending transactions. However, it should be the eventually every 
pending transaction is covered by the root or it times out.

## Replay Protection

State updates in Namada, derived from transfer to Ethereum events, result in
the increment of the value of a monotonically growing nonce, that is signed
together with the root of the Bridge Pool. The `Bridge` smart contract's nonce
of transfers to Ethereum is kept in sync with Namada's, upon relay calls. This
behavior should contribute to avoiding replay attacks on Ethereum events related
to transfers to Ethereum, as it assigns a unique id on a snapshot of the Bridge
Pool. Ethereum events arriving at the ledger with a nonce different from the next
expected nonce are rejected.

## Timeouts

Pending transfers to Ethereum sitting in the Bridge Pool for some duration of
$T_{dur}$ blocks are subject to timeouts. The exact value of $T_{dur}$, for
now, is the minimum duration in blocks of an epoch. Transactions that time out
should revert the state changes in Namada, including refunding the paid fees
and escrowed assets.

> Timeouts only happen after we process transfer to Ethereum events to guarantee

Reviewer: What if a particular bridge pool update is never relayed to Ethereum, though? Can we ever claim the assets back on Namada?

Reviewer: I guess if we require ordered processing of bridge pool updates anyways, there's no way to recover from this anyways. This does mean that we'll be less able to be responsive to Ethereum gas markets, though :thinking:. Just curious, did we consider a design where the timeouts reference Ethereum-side block heights, and processing a particular transfer after that block height will fail + you can make a proof that a transfer was not processed before that block height (emitting an Ethereum event which can be confirmed on Namada, releasing the assets)?

Author: you can pick a subset of whichever transfers from the bridge pool you want to relay. quorum certificates contain signatures over the merkle root of the bridge pool and some nonce. you provide an inclusion proof for the subset you want to relay. so, there should always be relays happening, regardless of whether a particular transfer is included or not. eventually, transfers that are never relayed will time out, and the assets and fees can be reclaimed back on Namada.

we did not consider timing out events based on their Ethereum-side block height, to answer your question

Reviewer: I'm less concerned with Namada not reaching a quorum decision on a particular nonce than I am with the Ethereum gas prices getting high and no one wanting to relay batches, during which a large queue builds up because the Ethereum side won't allow later batches tto be relayed until earlier ones have been - I'm assuming that the Ethereum contracts check the nonce and increment it each time, right?

Author: > I'm assuming that the Ethereum contracts check the nonce and increment it each time, right?

yup

this is definitely an issue that affects throughput. the escrowed funds would not be able to be reclaimed, with the current design, since they either need to time out or be relayed to be released from the bridge pool, and this only happens when we get a transfer to Ethereum event

Reviewer: alright - I think this is OK for now, but let's definitely note it down

> Timeouts only happen after we process transfer to Ethereum events, to guarantee

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Timeouts only happen after we process transfer to Ethereum events to guarantee
```

the consistency of the shared state between Namada and Ethereum. Nonces from

> transfer to Ethereum events will place a total order on these transfers and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`TransferToEthereum` events will place a total order on these transfers and
```
